---
layout: post
title: 'Week 3: Jim Hall and Git Exercise'
---

### Jim Hall
#### Part 1
This week we were lucky enough to have a Jim Hall visit our class virtually and provide his insight on Open Source after having led the open source project FreeDos for over two decades.
<!--end_excerpt-->
It was exciting to be able to speak to someone who has so much experience with open source so early in the semester. Perhaps this fact is reflective of the many people leading open source projects who are willing to share their experience with others; it makes sense that those leading open source projects would be interested in giving things out for free.

Hearing the process and history behind FreeDos helped to demystify open source and being able to talk to the person who started a project of their own made the idea of starting an open source project seem a lot more tangible. It was entertaining to here the disclaimer in Jim's initial message promoting his new project as he said that if a project like FreeDos already exists, someone should please point him in their direction. I also loved to see the 1990's take on the modern day :), Jim Hall's version being :->

From the conversation with Jim Hall it was clear that the integrity and welcoming behavior of the community that contributes to an open source project is one of the most important factors of keeping a project alive. Additionally, having users by ensuring that a product is easy to use makes people interested in the project and again keeps it alive. Both these facts reveal the integral dependence on understanding of other humans that open source projects must have if they wish to survive. From our conversation with Jim Hall, I could tell that he truly valued understanding and sharing with other humans.

### Git Activity
#### Part 2
I would describe myself as an intermediate level Git user. Thanks to past professors who have forced me to use the command line client to push my homeworks to a Git repository, I had a solid base of understanding of how the basic functions of adding, committing, pushing and pulling worked. The Git Activity we performed in class helped to take me beyond just my insular understanding of how to work with Git on a repository that I am the sole contributor on. Learning the different methods of cloning and branching projects and the relationships that different actions performed on repositories create helped me begin to understand how the process of working on a collaborative repository would work. Understanding how to collaborate is an essential tool for working in open source because it is all about collaboration, and when you don't know who is also working on the repository at the same time as you, it is even more essential to have a deep understanding of how git works.

I wouldn't say I quite have a deep understanding yet, but working on my add on activity in a collaborative repository is the first step to learning these lessons with first hand experience. After all, these functions and methods of how to work with a git repository will only stick once I have done them live with a real project and a real git repository.

I hope that by the end of this class, I will have worked on, and maybe started, enough collaborative repositories so that I could call myself more than an intermediate level Git user, maybe an adept Git user.