---
layout: post
title: An Introduction to Open Source
---

# #1 An Introduction to Open Source

This week was spent learning the basics about Open Source as a concept and movement and understanding the benefits and difficulties that come with it.

## Background on Open Source
Open Source is a movement that started in the 70s/80s and has since been criticized for fears of communist influences as well as get adopted by many large tech companies.

Open Source as a business model is hard to understand as the basic concepts of Open Source is that the code, which would ordinarily be proprietary, is given away freely not only for use but also for modification and reproduction depending on the license.

When it comes to Open Source the licensing is king as the licensing is what differentiates regular proprietary code protected by copyright laws from Open Source code.

This week I started compiling possible Open Source projects and in the weeks to come I will dig deeper into some of these projects to see where I would be able to contribute. My main concern is that I will simply not have enough technical knowledge to be able to contribute to a project. The other main concern with trying to contribute to an Open Source project is that the community may be toxic, however, I'm not too worried about this as if I go in with the expectation that some members of the community will be toxic and others will not I won't be as negatively affected by those more unsavory. I also have experience dealing with toxic people on the internet so their presence in the Open Source community does not come as much of a surprise.