---
layout: post
title: 'Week 6: Christopher Snider and Open Source for Communities'
---

### Christopher Snider
Christopher Snider's presentation brought the reality of what is at stake when it comes to open source projects into the classroom.
<!--end_excerpt-->
Having had a speaker already come in and focus on some of the specific logistical aspects of running an open source project, Snider presented a very different side of open source, a much more human side. From an outside perspective, looking at many different open source projects, it's hard to have a strong opinion about one unless you have some kind of personal connection to the goal of the project. This week we looked at many open source projects that had a societal and community benefit and examining this possibility made the prospects of open source seem a lot more hopeful.

Snider, himself having diabetes, brings in a level of reality that is often lost when working remotely on global spanning open source repositories. It's easy to feel disconnected not only from the other contributors, but from the actual final product and by extension that actual benefit that the project would provide. Through Snider's personal anecdotes, the necessity of Tidepool's technology becomes a lot more tangible. There are real parents, children and even pets who need this technology to survive and make their already difficult lives a little easier. It's amazing to think about how much of a positive impact technology like Tidepool's can have on so many people in need. Additionally, the fact that Tidepool's platform is open and free proves that the health and safety of people with diabetes is more important than profit margins, at least in this instance. It was inspiring to hear the story of the hospital that was able to replace their expensive Tidepool alternative with Tidepool's free solution.

I was initially confused somewhat about why people and companies would choose to have their code be open source because I assume companies would want to safeguard the code that they pay software engineers so much money to produce. When presented with the concept of lowering barriers to contribution via open source practices, the full power and energy of a community feels like it can be taken advantage of. There is so much intellectual capacity within humanity and so much of that capacity is spent fighting against one another whether it be in war or in code. With open source, because there is no incentive to only have contributions from a limited pool of people, communities are able to come together and produce a better product, one that is more reflective of the community as a whole.

### Community of Open Source
There are many open source projects that are being developed whose main purpose is simply for the benefit of a community or society. The beauty of open source is the freedom to engage with whatever you want as if you see an issue of some kind, you can go ahead and start an open source project to address that issue. This freedom takes power away from those traditional decision makers in society such as wealthy business leaders and politicians, and gives individuals a say in where they want humanities intellectual efforts and developments to go. Because individuals get more of a say, and because many of these open source projects are not for profit, they don't have the same profit based incentives that skew decision making processes. This means that it is more likely that the issues being addressed are actual issues that are valued by the communities that are working to solve them. As can be seen with Tidepool, many of the contributors are individuals who they themselves or someone they are close to have diabetes, and they are able to take an active role in solving issues that directly relate to themselves rather than wait for a company to make changes they would like to see or have to pay a company an unreasonable rate for essential services.

Another benefit of open source is that it engages more of the community in exposing them to technology and societal issues. I think it's great that there were classes of young students being exposed not only to societal issues like food shortage but also to technology and software as a concept at such a young age. Our education systems are rooted in values and curriculum that is not reflective of the times; at a time where technology accounts for over [15 percent](https://www.brookings.edu/research/trends-in-the-information-technology-sector/) of the world's GDP, we should be exposing children to technology much more than they currently are. Technology should at least be taught half as much as the likes of history or biology as it's more likely that lessons learned in tech classes will actually be used based on labor statistics.

One difficulty with the model of open source, more so a challenge of democracy as a whole, is that typically only those issues that affect many people would get substantial contributions as it is much less likely that someone would contribute to something that they have no connection to. This was the case with Crystal's mom who has a disease that is much more rare than diabetes and because of this, there is no great free solution like Tidepool that exists to give her equitable access to technology.