---
layout: post
title: 'Week 4: Working in Groups on Browser Extension'
---

### First Real Group Work
This week felt like the first time I was really working on a collaborative coding project. I have worked in groups before for coding assignments, but those experiences have always felt more superficial than actually collaborating on code out of necessity.
<!--end_excerpt-->
What felt different about working on the browser extension is that my partner and I were both contributing to and trying to solve the same issues on the same file causing us to actually have to address conflict resolution.
 
### My Contributions
I contributed almost all of the actual code to the project and part of the documents for the repository.
 
For the code, I edited the code from the Beastify activity code base, changing names and functions and commenting on the changes I made. I changed the buttons on the popup and coded the functionality to change border and background color.
 
For the documents, I created the contributing guide and the Code of Conduct which was mostly copied from the Contributor's Covenant.
 
I also came up with the ideas for the functionality of the browser extension.
 
### What I learned
In terms of new technologies that I learned, I learned about how a browser extension actually functions and how it ties multiple different types of files together for the various required functions of a browser extension. I also learned how the popup must send messages containing instructions in Javascript to the browser window to have changes in the popup affect the browser window. I also learned how to perform conflict resolution on the code as my teammate and I would often be working on the same section of code, both trying to get it to work, and when one of us would get working code, we would only keep that version and delete any others. Through this process we learned that it is much more efficient to try to work on different sections of code as it is difficult to keep on having to remember which version of whose code works when we are both making different changes to the same section. One difficulty with this strategy is that in cases where there are not too many concepts to understand, if one person knows more about how the code works, it will take less time for them to come up with functioning code for all desired functionality than for the other person to learn how the code works in the first place. I think there is a difficult balance one must find when trying to create a project under a deadline and learn at the same time as people typically work on what they are most familiar with for the sake of time but this hinders one's ability to learn new skills.
 
### Outstanding Add Ons
I was very impressed with a number of other team's extensions from the usability of the project to the quality of the presentations. One team I found intriguing was the "Less Ugly Brightspace" team. I thought this idea was a very clever and very code light solution to show how easy and helpful it is to implement a dark mode on a website like Brightspace.
 
I also was very impressed by the presentation of the "Slap-a-fetti" project. I found their colorful and zany slides along with their funny explanation of the use cases based in pranking to be very entertaining especially when paired with the final extension which comically swung the entire webpage.
 
Finally, I was also very impressed by the functionality and usefulness of "Searchionary" which allows the user to open a new tab with the definition of a word they enter in a popup. I thought this was again a very simple, yet effective extension which cleverly solved a very common issue.
