---
layout: post
title: 'Week 10: Blender is Blending My Mind'
---

### The Double Edged Blender
This week was was spent learning the functionality of both Blender and the version control system of the Blender developers.
<!--end_excerpt-->

Blender has been a double edged sword so far for our team. The software itself is incredibly powerful and quite fun and interesting once you know how to use it. However, with great power comes great complexity and it takes a lot of instructional videos and practice to understand even a small amount of the functionality of Blender. In order to be a contributor, the developers suggest working on a part of Blender that we actually use. This is difficult because as we are starting from a point of very little knowledge about the software, we must take a lot of time to learn how Blender actually works before we can begin contributing. This feels like it may be a misdirection of efforts because I am antsy to get started on contributions, but looking at the descriptions of the issues makes no sense if we don't understand the application itself. I have to keep reminding myself of this fact as I spend time learning how to use Blender. I am actually quite excited for this forced opportunity to learn how to use Blender as I have been meaning to learn it in depth for a while and being forced to do something you want to do is a great way to direct efforts. Again I must use this fact to remind myself that it's ok that I am not diving straight into contributions.

I am however already able to understand the issues better than I was able to before as I know what is being referred to by phrases like "orthographic views" and "QuadView". This is encouraging as I continue my push up the steep beginning of contributing to Blender.

### Teamwork :)

This week has also been a chance for us as a team to work out how we want to organize our efforts going forward. We have begun giving ourselves homework in the form of the tasks to do by our next meeting. For this week I provided links to Blender tutorials which each of us are going to try to work through by the end of the week. These tutorials should give us a good rounded out base of understanding for the Blender application. We are also organizing our meetings times better as well as our actual work during the meetings. We tried to implement SCRUM tactics in our meetings to give a level of order to our meetings. So far the SCRUM framework has worked well for us to make sure that we are covering all the topics we ought to during the meetings.

In the coming week we will be trying to learn Blender and we plan to each find one issue that we think we could start working on and we will collaboratively look at each other's issues and determine which might be a good issue for us to work on.