---
layout: post
title: Codes of Conduct and Browser Add Ons
---

## Codes of Conduct and Browser Add Ons

### Code of Conduct
#### Part 1
This week we examined various codes of conduct and discussed their purpose.

In your own words explain the benefits of having such a document for a project. Do you think other projects would benefit from having such a document?

Having a Code of Conduct protects contributors to an open source project and encourages contributions because people feel more protected and safer contributing to a community that has rules and guidelines. The Code of Conduct ensures that the open-ness of open source projects is not undermined by any group or individual who creates a toxic environment that either is not conducive to contributions or make contributors uncomfortable and thus discourages contributions. The code of conduct holds people accountable by laying out specific banned behavior and possibly also includes specific punishment for breach of the Code of Conduct. With a Code of Conduct everyone is on the same page in terms of accountability and expectations when they become a member of an open source project's community.
<!--end_excerpt-->
I think all projects should have a Code of Conduct unless it is a very unique project that is intentionally trying to have a degree of chaos as it leaves the culture and regulation up the the community.


Follow the link at the bottom of the above document to the Contributor Covenant website. Find two differences between the two code of conduct documents. Try to explain why the Go project might have made those changes.

Differences:
The Go Code of Conduct is more specific, more focused on diversity, more conscious of international contributors and language barriers, and has more specific instructions for conflict resolution, Gopher values

These changes may have been made because the Go project may be catering to a different audience. Perhaps the project expects more contributors from other countries in which mentioning the various communication styles that may be present is especially relevant. Additionally perhaps the Go project wants to have a stronger control over the culture of the project and thus would want to have a more detailed Code of Conduct.



Code of Conduct for eclipse: https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php

The Eclipse Code of Conduct is almost an exact copy with minimal additions to the code covenant. The Go Project has more sections about why the code of conduct is important and their specific values. The Eclipse one is more just copy paste, perhaps indicating they don't care as much as the Go Project.


#### Part 2

The Sugar Labs Code of Conduct, similarly to the Go Project's Code of Conduct, has a preamble about the importance of the Code of Conduct. It also similarly has a number of "Be \<statements>" like Go Project's. However, Sugar Lab's is more general and doesn't talk as much about things like Scope, Standards, and specific prohibited actions and punishment.
The Sugar Labs Code of Conduct is based on the Ubuntu Code of Conduct


#### Part 3
Wikipedia's Code of Conduct: https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Universal_Code_of_Conduct
Like Go Project and Sugar Labs, Wikipedia's has a preamble about the importance and reason for their Code of Conduct. Like the others, Wikipedia starts with a section on expectations of behavior or "standards". It then goes on to talk, in much greater detail than the other Codes we have looked at, about "Unacceptable Behavior" many different abuses that are specifically named and prohibited. The Wiki Code of Conduct spends much more time talking about specific prohibited actions than about its general values and responsibilities.

### Browser Add Ons
Following the Firefox add on tutorials was easier than I thought it would be and I was able to very quickly get a functioning add on that noticeably augmented my Firefox browser. The downside is that because of the speed that I had in going through the tutorials to get them done in class, I was no where near close to understanding all the code behind why the add on works, however, as my team is developing our own add on, we will likely dive into the intricacies of how the code works and truly understand how the add on system functions within Firefox. So far it seems to make the most sense to do something based on the functionality that the tutorials provided as we would have a solid code base to expand on knowing that the base logic and functionality works.