---
layout: post
title: 'Week 13: Breaking the Blender Barrier'
---

### Making Moves

Our group is finally ready to break through the previously impermeable boundary that has protected Blender's code base from us in the past.
<!--end_excerpt-->
Last week I was able to report two issues with the online Blender guide. This was a breakthrough in it's own right as I was able to find a niche area where I was able to lend my particular expertise and attention to the project in a way that benefitted it. I was able to put different parts of the overall open source project together to better understand how it all comes together and functions. When I found the issues that I reported, I didn't immediately report them because I knew that because I was the one reporting the issue, my group and I were in a very good position to understand and respond to the issue with a fix without having to do much additional research. Once I found where exactly in the code I would have to go to make the fix and submit a [diff](https://developer.blender.org/differential/diff/create/), I reported the issues and assigned one to Mariah and one to Brian. We then tried to quickly submit a diff the same day, however, due to Blender's confusing site and methods for submitting contributions, we were not able to submit a diff even though we knew exactly what to change and exactly where to change it in the code.

To our despair, before we could figure out how to submit a diff, I got an two emails one after the other saying that [Aaron Carlisle](https://developer.blender.org/p/Blendify/) had submitted diffs and closed both of my issues that I reported! This was supposed to be our team's chance to gently pass ourselves the ball before we metaphorically tapped it into the goal. Even worse, after reviewing the diffs that Aaron Carlisle submitted to fix my issues, there was a minor mistake in his fix. Because he seems to have the power to close issues at command, I'm not sure I have the privileges to reopen my issue. I have since left a comment on the issue tagging him pointing out that his fix was not completely correct and that if he would re-open the issue, I would gladly submit a diff to fix the issue myself. Unfortunately I have gotten no response this week and I doubt it will be coming any time soon.

This whole process, although not a complete success, was able to bring about many positive developments for my group. The biggest advancement is that due to the race to submit a diff before others stole our issue, we were forced to put the necessary time into learning how exactly to submit a diff which more complicated than we anticipated. We have not actually had a chance to test out our new understanding but I am much more confident that when the chance to complete a new issue presents itself, we will be ready!

Additionally, our group, upon seeing the possibility that lies in reporting issues on the documentation, has thought of new ways for us to find issues in the documentation that should yield almost an endless supply of issues. Mariah and Brian both discussed their understanding of improving the accessibility of websites. Currently the documentation has many accessibility issues on almost all its pages. This is a great problem for us because each of these issues on each of the webpages could be a commit for us! One thought I have had is that if the Blender team were going to decide on changing some of their practices for the documentation sites that they would fix all the webpages in one fell swoop by going through each page themselves, however this would be a good outcome anyways because it just means that we would have cause their documentation site to become accessible even faster.

### Comradery in Commiseration

It was actually quite enjoyable to hear from the other groups in the in class presentations this week. What I loved most about the presentations is that you could really tell with each group how much time and effort they have put into these projects and some of the scars that they have acquired on that way. Because each group is experiencing unique yet similar issues, each presentation felt very relatable as we were able to sympathize with the heartbreak of a stolen issue, or the despair of trying to find where the relevant code lives in a maze-like code base. This shared pain made the process feel a lot more comforting knowing that other teams are also experiencing difficulty. Personally, it has been very frustrating to not have been able to submit a diff or commit yet as I have really been putting in the time and effort, yet simply learning how to interact with Blender's system has been a huge challenge. To hear that the other Blender team was going through their own difficulties and that these issues that tend to feel individual are more of a communal experience made me feel much more secure in the place that our group is at, and all the more hopeful for the near future when we will be successful in submitting a commit.