---
layout: post
title: 'Week 5: Project Evaluations and Open Source Videos'
---

### Evaluating Atom
Having not looked at an Open Source project's repository in depth before, the Atom repository was not what I was expecting.
<!--end_excerpt-->
The most impressive and surprising thing about the project evaluation was learning about the functionality of Atom. I was very impressed by the ability to work on a document in the IDE at the same time as another Atom user. I also didn’t know that Atom was made by Github meaning that it likely has very good git functionality. Because this was my first time looking at an open source repository, I didn’t know what to expect of the different functionalities of issues, contributors, poll requests, and more that make up an open source repository. I was also surprised at how the project was able to be largely maintained by a relatively small group of main contributors. There were only a few main contributors who had the bulk of the commits. There were also only a few people who responded to almost all of the open issues.

I was also surprised to see the level of direction for the project that was being decided publicly in the repository. There were open issues that were not based on a single issue, but more so questions about which kind of features should be implemented next. One issue had lots of suggestions of what kind of direction the project should go. Just by following the comments, I could see for myself the decision making process of part of the project.

 
### Open Source Videos
Overall most of the open source projects highlighted in the video were very inspiring and made the concept of open source seem much more valuable as there were tangible benefits that were coming from allowing the projects to be open source. For example with the textbook, insulin, and growing plants projects there were life changing things in the people’s lives that were being benefited by the fact that the project could accept help from anyone who wanted to solve the same issue. I was also surprised to see how young some of the students who were contributing to and using open source projects. Some of the students who were growing plants with the open source projects were incredibly young and I was shocked at their ability to speak intelligently about the complex issues that their projects were addressing.
One thing that I learned was how many people from so many backgrounds can use the concept of open source code to help fix a problem that they are passionate about. It was initially hard to think about the use cases for open source code because I assumed there would be proprietary secrets that companies would not want to be known by putting in an open source repository. However, seeing all the cases where the worry about stolen code is not an issue, such as those cases where humanity as a whole is benefitted, made the concept of open source seem much more relevant.