---
layout: post
title: 'Week 12: Putting the Camera on Open Source'
---

### Open Source in Film

The film industry has a surprising amount of technological development to bring the magic that society has come to expect to the big screen.
<!--end_excerpt-->
Animation and computer generated images of all sorts requires sophisticated software to simulate and design the amazing characters and effects that make movies so otherworldly. Thus in the process of trying to achieve a certain look for specific shots or character rigs in movies, film software teams develop very advanced software to simulate things from water to facial animation. Once individual film effects departments at different companies develop different pipelines for the various unique tasks that are required to get the effect they want, if they recognize that the issue they are trying to solve is an issue that teams at other companies would also be interested in solving, they may be open to communicating and possibly opening up that software. This was the case when Industrial Light and Magic, the effects company responsible for Star Wars, Pacific Rim and many others, made their file format open calling it OpenEXR. This allowed their file format to penetrate the industry and increase the viability of their own offerings as they had the best knowledge of how this new file format and the surrounding software worked.

One great aspect of these leaps forward in film technology is that they are often accompanied by the film project that the technology was developed specifically for, thus giving a very impressive tangible display of the power of the new technology. Furthermore, once that technology is being utilized by one film company to have cutting edge effects, other film companies are going to want to keep their standards up with other films of the time and thus would want to turn to effects companies that utilize this new software, likely firstly the company that created the software and did the original effects. Some examples of these momentous moments in film technology history are the first Toy Story, Lord of the Rings, and Avatar.

Open source technology is quite pervasive in the film industry. The open source project that my group is working on is Blender, an advanced 3D modeling application that has many features that make it an essential part of the film effects world. Blender is free and open under the GNU General Public License and is used commonly by large and small film makers to create 3D environments or characters.

### Putting Our Own Food in the Blender
So far our group has experienced many roadblocks and difficulties getting into the flow of trying to contribute to Blender. Whether it is the complicated and confusing version control website, or the even more complicated and mysterious codebase, it has been a laborious process to contribute. Today however was a breakthrough as our group both was able to get responses to our initial inquiries in the Blender-coders chat, and able to find a new issue and know how to patch the issue.

Today as my group member Brian and I were looking at the documentation related to our original issue of fixing overlapping hotkeys for tools, I noticed that in a related documentation article the image was outdated and there were multiple typos. I then was able to find the code for that page and recognized how to fix the issue of the image and correct the typos. Although we are making great progress on both these issues we are not sure how long it will take before any requests for reviews or pull requests we make will get resolved. Nonetheless today was a breakthrough with the hope of getting a meaningful contribution accomplished in the near future.