---
layout: post
title: 'Week 14: The Donut Has Landed'
---

### Our First Patch

This week we finally were able to overcome the great barrier separating us from Blender greatness!
<!--end_excerpt-->
For too long has our group been confused and dazed as we spun and read in circles through the endless documentation throwing us into an open source hysteria. This week I was able to put all the pieces together and actually make my changes, create a diff, create a patch from the diff, and get it reviewed. There have previously been roadblock at every point in this process, however, this week our experience dealing with the Blender project was able to guide me through a targeted approach which led to the success of our first patch.

The first level of difficulty comes from finding an accomplishable issue. For this problem I turned to the Blender Manual, filled with documentation on how to use the Blender app. I was previously able to simply look at a page and spot typos, however, I wanted a more surefire way to find something that needed updating. Thus I consulted the Blender 3.1 update notes and compared them to the Blender Manual to see if anything was outdated. I found the [Panoramic Cameras](https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/latest/render/cycles/object_settings/cameras.html#panoramic-cameras) page which had information on the complicated topic of the Fisheye Lens Polynomial. The description for the Fisheye Lens Polynomial was somewhat confusing and didn't have all the details that were outlined in the 3.1 update notes. I thought I could make the manual a little more clear by adding some of the phrasing from the update notes to the manual. This posed a simple issue which I knew exactly where in the files to find the code, and knew how to fix it.

The next challenge was knowing how to submit a diff. Previously we had gotten to this point before but not been able to submit a diff in time. This time, armed with the fervor knowing that we had been robbed before, I was able to create a diff and submit it correctly thanks to some documentation simply sitting in a random README in the Blender Manual repository. After submitting the diff I just had to assign a reviewer.

Thankfully, I had just the person in mind. [Aaron Carlisle](https://developer.blender.org/p/Blendify/) was the developer who snatched the other two issues I created for our team and and I have learned since then that he is the person who is in charge of updating the Blender Manual. It was an easy decision to pick him as the reviewer and within hours of submitting [the patch](https://developer.blender.org/D14814) he had reviewed and accepted the revision. This was certainly a moment to celebrate.

Unfortunately the celebrations had to be cut short as [Brecht Van Lommel](https://developer.blender.org/p/brecht/) requested changes to be made to the revision as he thought the wording should be different than what I had put. I have since submitted an edited revision for him or Aaron Carlisle to review and hopefully accept again soon.


### Riju Khatri

I enjoyed hearing from Riju Khatri as she was able to bring a level of reality to open source as she could come in person and was a member of the NYU community. Because she was so close in age to us students, I feel like she was able to offer particularly relevant advice for how people our age can interact with open source projects over the next few years. I especially appreciated the job and interview advice she offered as open source is a great way to show your enthusiasm for technology. Open source truly is a win-win for developer and project as if someone is contributing to a project they typically do so because they are curious and or interested in a technology and do so for fun, and the project gets input from its most committed users.

