---
layout: post
title: 'Week 9: Becoming Bullish on Blender'
---

### Building Blender
This week it was time to put the nose to the grindstone as we committed to an open source project to dedicate most of our contributions going forward.
<!--end_excerpt-->
I was initially attracted to Blender because it is a non-coding related software that I am actually somewhat familiar with. Blender is a 3D modeling software used frequently by visual effects artists that is a staple of the industry. I have been interested in visual effects for a while but never had enough knowledge or time to learn about how to use the amazing available technologies. Blender is actually incredible easy to acquire as it has been made available on a very popular gaming platform for PC's called Steam which makes Blender very easy to download and run. I tried learning Blender briefly but didn't get the chance to learn it in depth. I am excited to be committing to Blender as an open source project because it will force me to spend time learning the technology for my personal use as well.

Beyond my personal interest in Blender's product, Blender also seems to be a well run project as they have many new developer pages, style and documentation pages and are a very active project as they have new issues and commits very often. This will hopefully mean that once we as a group get to the point in our contributions where we will need to reach out for help, there will be many people ready and willing to help us through our troubles. The main difficulty so far has been the fact that Blender uses their own version control [site](https://developer.blender.org/) instead of Github which means that the many hours spent learning how to navigate Github's UI will not help in these new unfamiliar waters. Some quirks of the site have been the unusual names of their pages such as [Diffusion](https://developer.blender.org/diffusion/) for the repositories, [Differential](https://developer.blender.org/differential/) for the changes to the repository, [Manifest](https://developer.blender.org/maniphest/) for tasks and bugs. There is general difficulty navigating the website but these issues will likely subside once we spend more time working on the project.

One of the most difficult things about starting something new is the fact that the difficulty of the task is unknown as the steps to complete the task are unknown. This uncertainty creates excess unnecessary anxiety as it is those things that are unknown that are the most terrifying. It is in these beginning stages of getting involved with this new project that the most self determination is required to get over the hump of ignorance that casts the shadow of doubt in one's abilities and capacities. Right now is when I know the least about the Blender project and that is scary, however, I trust that in time, through hours of productively being lost I will slowly feel more comfortable navigating the project, looking at issues, reading code, and engaging with the community. It is this hopeful future that must keep me going through these early stages.

### Tom Callaway - Evangelist
In addition to picking our open source projects, this week we were visited by Tom Callaway an "Open Source Evangelist" at Amazon Web Service. Tom spent most of his last twenty years at Red Hat so he has much experience interacting with different open source projects. Tom was able to give a very high level perspective on the open source community because he was in a position where he has been able to touch many projects and be able to see the good, the bad, and the ugly of open source.

One of the most interesting statistics Tom brought up was the percentage of softwares from various sectors that included some open source code, most notably 100% of marketing softwares included some open source code. I had not thought about this obvious combination of open source solutions for individual modules or functions on a larger proprietary software. This efficiency of being able to utilize open source code for whatever business function allows companies of any size to much more efficiently develop their software as they don't have to reinvent the wheel every time they want to do something that there is already open source code for.

Another interesting point made by Callaway was the difference in relationship dynamics that working with an open source project creates. Because open source projects give their code freely, they have no responsibilities to whoever may want to use their code. This means if they so chose the project owner could not only stop development, but also take the code down from being open source. Callaway talked about times when an open technology that his team was using was taken down and his team had to fork a copy of the most recent version and continue the project on their own. Because the open source project typically has no agreement or obligation to third parties, open source projects could be the wild west when it comes to expectations of conduct or future development overall making open source truly a Bazaar.