---
layout: post
title: 'Week 7: The Role of Open Source Projects and Their Development'
---

### The Cathedral and the Bazaar
Linus Torvalds led the world of software development from a place of stability and control into a dynamic area of fast paced and free ideas.
<!--end_excerpt-->
Linus Torvalds is the creator of the Linux operating system and the many unique lessons that that process taught to the software development community are outlined in Eric S. Raymond's essay [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/). The essential point of this essay is to point out the differences between the two different camps of software development: Cathedral style and Bazaar style.

Cathedral style development is the style which most people probably think is what is used in most large tech companies: a controlled group of highly paid engineers grouped in an open workspace room developing and pushing code for their product. This style of development seems more fitting for a controlled and proprietary code base, especially one in which security is quite important.

The bazaar style contrasts this by opening up the planning and ideation of the project and allowing many more contributors into the intellectual field of decision making. This allows ideas to come from any contributor as like a bazaar, there could be hidden gems of ideas anywhere. This style seems to lend itself much more to open source projects as they are built on the idea of contributions from any source and dynamic development.

Each of these styles has their own strengths making neither the clear choice for all cases. For example Cathedral style allows much more control and planning throughout the development process and better ensures security for the final product. On the other hand, bazaar style allows the possibility for more voices to be heard and for development to be more dynamic and its trajectory may be constantly changing rather than trying to adhere to a specific developmental direction.

### Open Source Projects in a Global Perspective
The global factor of Open Source is essential for both the practical and ideological elements of open source development. Practically contributors could come from anywhere in the world where there are computers and wifi connections. This allows for differing perspectives when it comes to decision making. Ideologically open source is meant to be open for whatever community the software is used for and open too which in most cases is the global community. Thus open source projects start from the perspective that they are contributing to the general good of the global community. Because of this, when questions of global affairs come into play, it makes sense that the open source community, with its unrivalled ability to additively combine people's energy into solving community problems, would be quite active in combating global issues. When global issues strike there is often not time to sit and wait for planning or bureaucracy to come up with a cathedral style solution. It is in these times that the bazaar style of open source development is at its best as it is able to dynamically channel the immense energy of all those people who want to help contribute to their shared global community.

### Choosing an Open Source Project

Looking through the open source projects, there has always been one that stood out to me. Blender was the only software that I actually really considered using and I have been hearing about and seeing work done in Blender for years. When the group presented on Blender in class, I was overjoyed to hear that it sounded like such an inviting project to work on with good markings on all of the project evaluation metrics. Beyond this, the evaluation group also listed Python as the main programming language, a blessing for me who has been seeing many projects whose main language is C 😭. I am slightly scared by the idea that Blender has their own development site and doesn't use git, but I hope that will be good experience learning what more is out there other than just git. I don't know how to use Blender itself very well nonetheless how to contribute to their code base, but I hope that by the end of the semester I will be able to understand both Blender from a high and low level. I think the greatest challenges will be learning their new platform for code development and learning where I can find easy issues that I can actually fix.