---
layout: post
title: 'Week 11: Business Models and Old Commits'
---

### How to Make Open Source Profitable

The age old question of how to make money with open source software is one that is not answered easily.
<!--end_excerpt-->
By nature the main body of the value of open source is offered free and thus can typically not be directly used to make revenues for whomever is putting their code out in the world for free. Due to this difficulty, many nuanced and creative business models have been created to keep open source projects alive. Many of these models seem to follow the same logic as offering a free first beer at a bar, offer a great product for free and then charge for additional functionality or support.

One such method is open core which offers a version of the software for free and offers a second version with more features for a price. This second version aught to offer greater functionality and improve usability giving users of the core free version good reason to want to pay for the paid version. There is of course a difficult balance that must be struck as you don''t want to make your core free code too good because then people will not need to buy your paid version, but you also don't want to make it unusable because you need to entice consumers in with your free version enough for them to want your extra features.

Another method is software support/consulting. This model offers the software for free, however, additionally offers support for various related functions such as installation, training etc. Thus the code can be open and the developers can still be paid by those users who want extra help and support in their use of the software. This approach capitalizes on the development team's expertise of the software and allows consumers to have access to support if they are willing to pay for it. Even within this model there is a lot of variability in terms of how that support is offered as there are many different payment models that can be applied. I think one large drawback of this style is that it does not scale as well as other methods because the support which is the core business model will always be a manual process that takes time and effort as opposed to the open core which may not require as much time spent directly assisting clients.

A sadly unsuccessful business model is the donation model relying on the goodwill of an open source project's users. This model is nice in theory however typically doesn't seem to actually be able to sustain itself donations alone. Perhaps the most widely known example of this model is wikipedia who has the strongest appeals for donations I have personally experienced outside of the streets of NYC. Unfortunately the other models which base their income on purely business incentives seem to be much more reliable than depending on the kind-heartedness of people who use one's product.


### Old Commits & Learning Sculpting Mode

Our group has narrowed down our interest to one [issue](https://developer.blender.org/T88115) related to keyboard shortcuts that seems like something we could fix without too much difficulty. There appears to already be one [commit](https://developer.blender.org/D11208) from May 9, 2021 which tries to solve this issue but it is not clear what the status of this commit is. The commit seems to only have input from one person, [Michael Macha](https://developer.blender.org/p/vikinghelmet99/), and the commit has a message saying, "This revision needs review, but there are no reviewers specified." I am not sure whether this commit has not been reviewed because it has been forgotten about and just needs someone, like us, to remind a reviewer to check the code, or if the code itself is not viable and thus it may have been looked at but not deemed a viable fix and thus simply left to sit. To answer this question I am trying to recreate the issue to see one if it even still is an issue as this issue was reported almost a year ago, and two to see if I implement the proposed fixes code on my local Blender files if this issue is resolved and thus validate that the proposed fix is good code. The issue is linked with the sculpting feature of Blender which I had not used yet. Today I started trying out and seeing how the sculpting feature works so that I can understand how to recreate the bug. Hopefully in our group's next meeting we can figure out the story behind this old proposed fix to our issue and decide what to do in response.